refactor: move vim.lsp.diagnostic to vim.diagnostic (#15585)
neovim/neovim: runtime/doc/diagnostic.txt

                                   displayed
                    {namespace}  number|nil Update the options for the given
                                 namespace. When omitted, update the global
                                 diagnostic options.

disable({bufnr}, {namespace})                       *vim.diagnostic.disable()*
                Disable diagnostics in the given buffer.

                Parameters: ~
                    {bufnr}      number|nil Buffer number. Defaults to the
                                 current buffer.
                    {namespace}  number|nil Only disable diagnostics for the
                                 given namespace.

enable({bufnr}, {namespace})                         *vim.diagnostic.enable()*
                Enable diagnostics in the given buffer.

                Parameters: ~
                    {bufnr}      number|nil Buffer number. Defaults to the
                                 current buffer.
                    {namespace}  number|nil Only enable diagnostics for the
                                 given namespace.

get({bufnr}, {opts})                                    *vim.diagnostic.get()*

>                 Get all diagnostics for the buffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                Gets current diagnostics.
```

                Parameters: ~
                    {bufnr}  number|nil Buffer number to get diagnistics from.

>                              Use 0 for current buffer. When omitted, retrieve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                             Use 0 for current buffer, or nil for all buffers.
```

                             diagnostics from all buffers.
                    {opts}   table|nil A table with the following keys:
                             • namespace: (number) Limit diagnostics to the
                               given namespace.
                             • lnum: (number) Limit diagnostics to the given
                               line number.
                             • severity: (|vim.diagnostic.severity|) Only
                               return diagnostics with this severity.
                               Conflicts with {min_severity}.
                             • min_severity: (|vim.diagnostic.severity|)
                               Return diagnostics with this severity or worse.

>                                Conflicts with {severity}.

Reviewer: instead of these conflicts maybe `severity` could be a tuple.

> severity: (|vim.diagnostic.severity| or a 2-tuple thereof) Filter diagnostics matching this severity level or within the bounds of the `{min, max}` 2-tuple.

Author: One possible concern is that in Lua `{min, nil}` is indistinguishable from `{min}`. I suspect this could be confusing. What would a typical user expect from e.g.

```lua
vim.diagnostic.get(0, { severity = {vim.diagnostic.severity.WARN} })
```

They passed a table with only one element, so we would treat this as a lower bound. But it's not at all obvious that this is correct. `severity` and `min_severity` is more verbose but has fewer surprises.

Reviewer: a dict could avoid that. The main point is to avoid awkward mix-and-match parameters that conflict. Although the validation/processing logic might be a chore, this "single param or keyword-args" pattern is common and we could formalize it in `vim.validate()`.

> ```lua
> vim.diagnostic.get(0, { severity = {min=vim.diagnostic.severity.WARN} })
> ```

set({namespace}, {diagnostics}, {bufnr}, {opts})        *vim.diagnostic.set()*
                Set diagnostics for the given namespace and buffer.

                Parameters: ~
                    {namespace}    number The diagnostic namespace
                    {diagnostics}  table A list of diagnostic items
                                   |diagnostic-structure|
                    {bufnr}        number|nil The buffer to set diagnostics
                                   for. Defaults to the current buffer.
                    {opts}         table|nil Display options to pass to
                                   |vim.diagnostic.show()|

setloclist({opts})                               *vim.diagnostic.setloclist()*
                Add diagnostics to the location list.

                By default, adds diagnostics for the current buffer in all
                namespaces.

                Parameters: ~
                    {opts}  table|nil Configuration table with the following
                            keys:
                            • namespace: (number) Only add diagnostics from
                              the given namespace.

>                             • bufnr: (number, default 0) Only add diagnostics

Author: Yep, good catch, thanks.

*diagnostic.txt*   Diagnostics

                            NVIM REFERENCE MANUAL

Diagnostic framework                                     *vim.diagnostic*

Nvim provides a framework for displaying errors or warnings from external
tools, otherwise known as "diagnostics". These diagnostics can come from a
variety of sources, such as linters or LSP servers. The diagnostic framework
is an extension to existing error handling functionality such as the
|quickfix| list.

                                      Type |gO| to see the table of contents.

==============================================================================
QUICKSTART                                              *diagnostic-quickstart*

Anything that reports diagnostics is referred to below as a "diagnostic
producer". Diagnostic producers need only follow a few simple steps to
report diagnostics:

1. Create a namespace |nvim_create_namespace()|. Note that the namespace must
   have a name. Anonymous namespaces WILL NOT WORK.
2. (Optional) Configure options for the diagnostic namespace
   |vim.diagnostic.config()|.
3. Generate diagnostics.

> 4. Set the diagnostics for the buffer |vim.diagnostic.set()|.

Reviewer: 💯  nice addition to the docs. These concise practical overviews are important.

	severity: The severity of the diagnostic |vim.diagnostic.severity|
	message: The diagnostic text

Diagnostics use the same indexing as the rest of the Nvim API (i.e. 0-based
rows and columns). |api-indexing|

				*vim.diagnostic.severity* *diagnostic-severity*
The "severity" key in a diagnostic is one of the values defined in
`vim.diagnostic.severity`:

	vim.diagnostic.severity.ERROR
	vim.diagnostic.severity.WARN
	vim.diagnostic.severity.INFO
	vim.diagnostic.severity.HINT

==============================================================================
HIGHLIGHTS						*diagnostic-highlights*

All highlights defined for diagnostics begin with `Diagnostic` followed by
the type of highlight (e.g., `Sign`, `Underline`, etc.) and the severity (e.g.
`Error`, `Warn`, etc.)

Sign, underline and virtual text highlights (by default) are linked to their
corresponding DiagnosticDefault highlight.

For example, the default highlighting for |hl-DiagnosticSignError| is
linked to |hl-DiagnosticDefaultError|. To change the default (and
therefore the linked highlights), use the |:highlight| command: >

    highlight DiagnosticDefaultError guifg="BrightRed"
<
						*hl-DiagnosticDefaultError*

> DiagnosticDefaultError

Reviewer: since we are renaming these anyway let's remove "Default" from the highlight names. Don't want this to proliferate. It is redundant and unnecessary. All highlights may (or may not) have "default" forms.
```suggestion
DiagnosticError
```

                                 given namespace.

enable({bufnr}, {namespace})                         *vim.diagnostic.enable()*
                Enable diagnostics in the given buffer.

                Parameters: ~
                    {bufnr}      number|nil Buffer number. Defaults to the
                                 current buffer.
                    {namespace}  number|nil Only enable diagnostics for the
                                 given namespace.

get({bufnr}, {namespace})                               *vim.diagnostic.get()*
                Get all diagnostics for the buffer.

                Parameters: ~
                    {bufnr}      number|nil Buffer number to get diagnistics
                                 from. Use 0 for current buffer. When omitted,
                                 retrieve diagnostics from all buffers.
                    {namespace}  number|nil Limit diagnostics to the given
                                 namespace.

                Return: ~
                    table A list of diagnostic items |diagnostic-structure|.

                                                  *vim.diagnostic.get_count()*

> get_count({bufnr}, {severity}, {namespace})

Reviewer: can we eliminate `get_count()` by adding a `severity` param to `get()` ?

Author: ```lua
vim.diagnostic.get_count(0, vim.diagnostic.severity.ERROR)
```

becomes

```lua
#vim.diagnostic.get(0, nil, { severity = vim.diagnostic.severity.ERROR })
```

It's a little more verbose but not prohibitively so. Sounds good to me.

                Useful for showing diagnostic counts in the |status-line|.
                Example: >

                 function! DiagnosticStatus() abort
                   let sl = ''
                   let sl .= 'E: %{luaeval("vim.diagnostic.get_count(0, vim.diagnostic.severity.ERROR)")} '
                   let sl .= 'W: %{luaeval("vim.diagnostic.get_count(0, vim.diagnostic.severity.WARN)")}'
                   return sl
                 endfunction
<

                Then simply add `%{DiagnosticStatus()}` to 'statusline'.

                Parameters: ~
                    {bufnr}      number|nil Buffer number. Use 0 for current
                                 buffer. When omitted, count diagnostics from
                                 all buffers.
                    {severity}   |vim.diagnostic.severity| Count only
                                 diagnostics for the given severity. When
                                 omitted, count all diagnostics.
                    {namespace}  number|nil Count only diagnostics from the
                                 given namespace.

                                       *vim.diagnostic.get_line_diagnostics()*

> get_line_diagnostics({bufnr}, {lnum}, {opts})

Reviewer: - for parallel form with `get()` we can name this `get_by_linenr`. (Don't need to repeat "diagnostics" in the name)
- alternatively I would consider adding an optional `opt.linenr` param to `get()`, then we don't need this extra function.

```suggestion
get_by_linenr({bufnr}, {lnum}, {opts})
```

Author: I actually like just adding a line number to `get()`. I don't think the symmetry with `show_line_diagnostics` is important.

DiagnosticDefaultWarn
  Used as the base highlight group.
  Other LspDiagnostic highlights link to this by default (except Underline)

						*hl-DiagnosticDefaultInfo*
DiagnosticDefaultInfo
  Used as the base highlight group.
  Other LspDiagnostic highlights link to this by default (except Underline)

						*hl-DiagnosticDefaultHint*
DiagnosticDefaultHint
  Used as the base highlight group.
  Other LspDiagnostic highlights link to this by default (except Underline)

					*hl-DiagnosticVirtualTextError*
DiagnosticVirtualTextError
  Used for "Error" diagnostic virtual text.
  See |vim.diagnostic.set_virtual_text()|

					*hl-DiagnosticVirtualTextWarn*
DiagnosticVirtualTextWarn
  Used for "Warn" diagnostic virtual text.
  See |vim.diagnostic.set_virtual_text()|

						*hl-DiagnosticVirtualTextInfo*
DiagnosticVirtualTextInfo
  Used for "Info" diagnostic virtual text.
  See |vim.diagnostic.set_virtual_text()|

						*hl-DiagnosticVirtualTextHint*
DiagnosticVirtualTextHint
  Used for "Hint" diagnostic virtual text.
  See |vim.diagnostic.set_virtual_text()|

						*hl-DiagnosticUnderlineError*
DiagnosticUnderlineError
  Used to underline "Error" diagnostics.

>   See |vim.diagnostic.set_underline()|

Author: I don't think we need to expose the `set_*` functions publicly either; however, they are still used in LSP so we'll need to expose them privately for that purpose at least.

>   See |vim.diagnostic.set_underline()|

Reviewer 2: They can be public (and documented), they should just not be at the _forefront_ of documentation like this.

                    {severity|nil}  Return diagnostics for the given severity
                                    |vim.diagnostic.severity|. If omitted, all
                                    diagnositcs are returned.

                                       *vim.diagnostic.get_line_diagnostics()*
get_line_diagnostics({bufnr}, {lnum}, {opts})
                Get diagnostics by line.

                Parameters: ~
                    {namespace}  number|nil Limit diagnostics to the given
                                 namespace. If `nil` , retrieve diagnostics
                                 from all namespaces.
                    {bufnr}      number|nil The buffer number. Defaults to the
                                 current buffer.
                    {lnum}       number|nil The line number. Defaults to the
                                 current line.
                    {opts}       table|nil A table with the following keys:
                                 • namespace: (number) Limit diagnostics to
                                   the given namespace.
                                 • severity: (|vim.diagnostic.severity|) Only

>                                    return diagnostics with this severity.

Reviewer 2: Given that it said "Overrides severity_limit." I would have expected it to behave like a limit, also given this is the behavior I'd expect as a _user_.   The expectation assumed here is that "exact match" is the common case and limit is some kind of special case, and I think it would be less surprising the other way around (alternatively `severity_limit` and `severity_only` and an error for a conflict to be neutral and explicit about behavior).

>                                    return diagnostics with this severity.

Reviewer 3: I think the behavior (and the documentation broadly) is good; the documentation also matches the (simple) implementation where `severity` is checked first.

Two suggestions for improvement:
* switch the order, so that `limit` comes first; that makes the contrast clearer and gives context for the "overrides".
* if `severity` should be renamed, I'd suggest `severity_level` -- and use that consistently, also in the code (e.g., `filter_by_severity_level` rather than `filter_at_severity_limit` -- which I had to read three times before noticing the difference to `filter_by_severity_limit`...)

>                                    return diagnostics with this severity.

Reviewer 3: And while we're at naming, I can't help but add my *ceterum censeo* that the inconsistent use of `diagnostic` and `diagnostics` is a mild but constant irritation...

If we do make a breaking change to the API (even with a compatibility layer to make it transparent), I'd love to take the opportunity to standardize on `vim.diagnostic**s**` everywhere!

>                                    return diagnostics with this severity.

Reviewer 2: As promoting this to _top level_ core API will substantially increase the direct usage of this API among plugins and users (as opposed to indirectly by activating a LSP config), I do think it is worthwhile to do some polish at the API at the same time, even if this implies a breaking change for some existing usages (no opinion either way on a compat layer)

>                                    return diagnostics with this severity.

Author: Is `min_severity` clearer than `severity_limit`? I will also make `severity` and `min_severity` mutually exclusive; providing both is an error.

```
- severity: (|vim.diagnostic.severity|) Only return diagnostics with this severity. Conflicts with {min_severity}.
- min_severity: (|vim.diagnostic.severity|) Return diagnostics with this severity or worse. Conflicts with {severity}.
```

My only hangup is that `min` implies ordered numbering. In my mind "lower" = "better" so that e.g. "Warning" is "lower" than "Error". So `min_severity = WARN` would imply both warnings and errors.

  Used for "Hint" signs in sign column.
  See |vim.diagnostic.set_signs()|

==============================================================================

> AUTOCOMMANDS					*diagnostic-autocommands*

Reviewer: let's try to use "events" where possible, autocmds imply vimscript but really they're just events and we will eventually have Lua handlers for them.
